README.md, before:

# DevFest AI Workshop


# AI Workshop Agenda

| Time              | Speaker               | Company          | Sessions                                               |
|-------------------|-----------------------|------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| **11:00 AM - 11:30 AM** | [Sako M](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sakom) | [Gladly](https://www.gladly.com)           | [Intro to workshop / Hackathon Building Blocks](sessions/01_intro_workshop)       |
| **11:30 AM - 12:00 PM** | [Simon Farshid](https://www.linkedin.com/in/simon-farshid) | [assistant-ui.com](https://assistant-ui.com) | [Human-in-the-loop Agents with assistant-ui](sessions/02_human_in_the_loop)          |
| **12:00 PM - 1:00 PM**  |  **Lunch**                                               |
| **1:00 PM - 1:30 PM**   |  |
| **1:30 PM - 2:00 PM**   | [Daniel Svonava](https://www.linkedin.com/in/svonava) | [Superlinked](https://superlinked.com)      | [Building E-commerce Recommendations with Vectors](sessions/04_ecommerce_vectors)    |
| **2:00 PM - 2:30 PM**   | [Adam Chan](https://www.linkedin.com/in/itsajchan)  | [Weaviate](https://weaviate.io)         | [Get Chunked! Chunking Strategies for Retrieval](sessions/05_chunking_strategies)      |
| **2:30 PM - 3:00 PM**   | [Jose Menendez](https://www.linkedin.com/in/menendezp) | [Groq](https://groq.com)             | [Low Latency on LLMs and Agent Workflows](sessions/06_low_latency_llms)             |
| **3:00 PM - 3:30 PM**   | [Sam Stowers](https://www.linkedin.com/in/samuelstowers) | [Weights & Biases](https://wandb.ai)              | [Production-Ready GenAI Apps with Tracing & Evaluations](sessions/07_production_genai) |
| **3:30 PM - 4:00 PM**   | [Luke Hollis](https://www.linkedin.com/in/luke-hollis) | [Mused](https://mused.com)            | [Generating Interactive Environments for Synthetic Training Data](sessions/08_interactive_envs) |
| **4:00 PM - 4:30 PM**   | [Huan Li](https://www.linkedin.com/in/huan42) | [Chatie](https://chatie.io)          | [Harnessing LLMs for Chatbot Development](sessions/09_chatbot_llms)             |
| **4:30 PM - 5:00 PM**   |  **Wrap-up and Networking**                              |




# Sessions

### Name: Sako M
- **Company**: Gladly
- **Bio**: Sako attended 40+ hackathons in just 9 months, will be setting the stage by diving into Hackathon Building Blocks and showing how to set yourself up for hackathon success! From ideation to execution, learn the strategies that make ideas fly! 

#### Session
- **Title**: Intro to workshop / Building blocks for hackathons
- **Description**: You’ll learn how to set up a high-performance local environment, use 'aiproxy' for efficient proxy traffic management, and automate dependency updates with PlatformGen.
  - Setting up local environment for speed
  - Leveraging aiproxy to handle proxy traffic
  - Apply PlatformGen - Autonomous Dependency Manager
  

---

### Name: Simon Farshid
- **Company**: assistant-ui.com
- **Bio**: Simon Farshid is the founder of assistant-ui.com, a rapidly rising open-source React component library for AI chat. The company focuses on advancing human-machine interaction by enabling developers to integrate AI agents into their apps. With 18,000+ monthly downloads and a partnership with LangChain, assistant-ui is a growing name in the AI developer community. Before moving to the US, Simon co-founded READO, a social app for book readers with 100,000+ monthly active users.

#### Session
- **Title**: Human-in-the-loop agents with assistant-ui
- **Description**: Learn about the different patterns to incorporate human feedback in your AI agents. We will go through a hands-on live coding session to build an interactive AI agent using assistant-ui, an open-source React component library for chat interfaces.
  - Understanding Human-in-the-Loop: An overview of why human feedback is essential in AI development and how it can be systematically incorporated, including Generative UI, approvals, and more.
  - Design Patterns: Learn about the right UX patterns for human input.
  - Building with assistant-ui: Step-by-step guidance on using assistant-ui to develop interactive agents.

---



---

### Name: Daniel Svonava
- **Company**: Superlinked
- **Bio**: Daniel is a co-founder of Superlinked - an open-source vector compute framework for building Metadata-aware Vector Search across RAG, RecSys, Search & Analytics. Previously, Daniel was an ML Tech Lead at YouTube Ads.

#### Session
- **Title**: Build e-commerce recommendations, search, and analytics with vectors
- **Description**: Use your unstructured AND structured data to handle queries like “popular blue t-shirts around $50” for building a real-time personalized shopping feed and other features useful for e-commerce businesses - with a few lines of python, running at scale in your own GCP account.
  - Topic 1
  - Topic 2

---

### Name: Adam Chan
- **Company**: Weaviate
- **Bio**: Adam is a tinkerer by nature and an educator at heart. He started out his career creating curriculum on various topics in technology and delivering them to universities, high schools, and libraries. 

#### Session
- **Title**: Get Chunked!
- **Description**: Join this multistep challenge presented by Adam at Weaviate that will take you from zero to hero on chunking strategies for retrieval-powered applications that leverage large language models.
  - Topic 1
  - Topic 2
  - Topic 3

---

### Name: Jose Menendez
- **Company**: Groq
- **Bio**: Jose is a SWE at Groq with 20 years of experience in the industry as Founder, high-performance data applications, Human/Computer interactions, and serves as a startup advisor in Silicon Valley.

#### Session
- **Title**: Low latency on LLMs allow for some fun agentic workflows!
  - Topic 1
  - Topic 2
  - Topic 3

---

### Name: Sam Stowers
- **Company**: Weights & Biases (W&B)
- **Bio**: Sam Stowers is an AI Engineer working on W&B's Weave, a leading LLM observability & evaluation tool, that takes 3 lines of code to instrument a gen AI app. 

#### Session
- **Title**: Make Your GenAI App Production-Ready with Tracing & Evaluations
- **Description**: LLM demos are easy - making them reliable enough for production is hard. Weave (from Weights & Biases) helps with every stage of development and deployment, so you can iterate rapidly and build confidence in your application.
  - Understand complex queries with tracing (3 lines of code!!)
  - Rapidly identify cost & latency bottlenecks
  - Implement evaluations to make LLM responses consistently good
  - Test which LLMs are best for your needs.

---

### Name: Luke Hollis
- **Bio**: Luke is a 2x founder specializing in 3D graphics, building generative environments for training datasets and educational simulations that feature 3D captures.

#### Session
- **Title**: Generating Interactive Environments for Synthetic Training Data with Google Cloud and Diffusion World Models
- **Description**: Inspired by "Genie: Generative Interactive Environments" (Bruce et al., 2024), this hands-on workshop introduces you to generating interactive environments to build simulations or synthetic training data using diffusion world models.
  - Topic 1
  - Topic 2
  - Topic 3

---

### Name: Huan Li
- **Company**: Chatie
- **Bio**: Huan Li is an accomplished technologist and innovator at the intersection of artificial intelligence and real-world applications. 

#### Session
- **Title**: Harnessing LLM to Power Chatbot Development with Code-generation and Doc-explanation
- **Description**: Conversational AI has empowered Chatbot applications in recent years, making the Conversational User Interface (CUI) increasingly valuable.
  - Learn what Wechaty SDK can do
  - Design your requirement for automating your WhatsApp personal account
  - Generate source code by prompting your requirement in natural language to LLM

Commit message:

Update title and session details is agenda and add link to FAL Diamond demo

README.md, after:

# DevFest AI Workshop


# AI Workshop Agenda

| Time              | Speaker               | Company          | Sessions                                               |
|-------------------|-----------------------|------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| **11:00 AM - 11:30 AM** | [Sako M](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sakom) | [Gladly](https://www.gladly.com)           | [Intro to workshop / Hackathon Building Blocks](sessions/01_intro_workshop)       |
| **11:30 AM - 12:00 PM** | [Simon Farshid](https://www.linkedin.com/in/simon-farshid) | [assistant-ui.com](https://assistant-ui.com) | [Human-in-the-loop Agents with assistant-ui](sessions/02_human_in_the_loop)          |
| **12:00 PM - 1:00 PM**  |  **Lunch**                                               |
| **1:00 PM - 1:30 PM**   |  |
| **1:30 PM - 2:00 PM**   | [Daniel Svonava](https://www.linkedin.com/in/svonava) | [Superlinked](https://superlinked.com)      | [Building E-commerce Recommendations with Vectors](sessions/04_ecommerce_vectors)    |
| **2:00 PM - 2:30 PM**   | [Adam Chan](https://www.linkedin.com/in/itsajchan)  | [Weaviate](https://weaviate.io)         | [Get Chunked! Chunking Strategies for Retrieval](sessions/05_chunking_strategies)      |
| **2:30 PM - 3:00 PM**   | [Jose Menendez](https://www.linkedin.com/in/menendezp) | [Groq](https://groq.com)             | [Low Latency on LLMs and Agent Workflows](sessions/06_low_latency_llms)             |
| **3:00 PM - 3:30 PM**   | [Sam Stowers](https://www.linkedin.com/in/samuelstowers) | [Weights & Biases](https://wandb.ai)              | [Production-Ready GenAI Apps with Tracing & Evaluations](sessions/07_production_genai) |
| **3:30 PM - 4:00 PM**   | [Luke Hollis](https://www.linkedin.com/in/luke-hollis) | [Mused](https://mused.com)            | [Generative Interactive Environments: World Models and Learning from GDM Genie](sessions/08_interactive_envs) |
| **4:00 PM - 4:30 PM**   | [Huan Li](https://www.linkedin.com/in/huan42) | [Chatie](https://chatie.io)          | [Harnessing LLMs for Chatbot Development](sessions/09_chatbot_llms)             |
| **4:30 PM - 5:00 PM**   |  **Wrap-up and Networking**                              |




# Sessions

### Name: Sako M
- **Company**: Gladly
- **Bio**: Sako attended 40+ hackathons in just 9 months, will be setting the stage by diving into Hackathon Building Blocks and showing how to set yourself up for hackathon success! From ideation to execution, learn the strategies that make ideas fly! 

#### Session
- **Title**: Intro to workshop / Building blocks for hackathons
- **Description**: You’ll learn how to set up a high-performance local environment, use 'aiproxy' for efficient proxy traffic management, and automate dependency updates with PlatformGen.
  - Setting up local environment for speed
  - Leveraging aiproxy to handle proxy traffic
  - Apply PlatformGen - Autonomous Dependency Manager
  

---

### Name: Simon Farshid
- **Company**: assistant-ui.com
- **Bio**: Simon Farshid is the founder of assistant-ui.com, a rapidly rising open-source React component library for AI chat. The company focuses on advancing human-machine interaction by enabling developers to integrate AI agents into their apps. With 18,000+ monthly downloads and a partnership with LangChain, assistant-ui is a growing name in the AI developer community. Before moving to the US, Simon co-founded READO, a social app for book readers with 100,000+ monthly active users.

#### Session
- **Title**: Human-in-the-loop agents with assistant-ui
- **Description**: Learn about the different patterns to incorporate human feedback in your AI agents. We will go through a hands-on live coding session to build an interactive AI agent using assistant-ui, an open-source React component library for chat interfaces.
  - Understanding Human-in-the-Loop: An overview of why human feedback is essential in AI development and how it can be systematically incorporated, including Generative UI, approvals, and more.
  - Design Patterns: Learn about the right UX patterns for human input.
  - Building with assistant-ui: Step-by-step guidance on using assistant-ui to develop interactive agents.

---



---

### Name: Daniel Svonava
- **Company**: Superlinked
- **Bio**: Daniel is a co-founder of Superlinked - an open-source vector compute framework for building Metadata-aware Vector Search across RAG, RecSys, Search & Analytics. Previously, Daniel was an ML Tech Lead at YouTube Ads.

#### Session
- **Title**: Build e-commerce recommendations, search, and analytics with vectors
- **Description**: Use your unstructured AND structured data to handle queries like “popular blue t-shirts around $50” for building a real-time personalized shopping feed and other features useful for e-commerce businesses - with a few lines of python, running at scale in your own GCP account.
  - Topic 1
  - Topic 2

---

### Name: Adam Chan
- **Company**: Weaviate
- **Bio**: Adam is a tinkerer by nature and an educator at heart. He started out his career creating curriculum on various topics in technology and delivering them to universities, high schools, and libraries. 

#### Session
- **Title**: Get Chunked!
- **Description**: Join this multistep challenge presented by Adam at Weaviate that will take you from zero to hero on chunking strategies for retrieval-powered applications that leverage large language models.
  - Topic 1
  - Topic 2
  - Topic 3

---

### Name: Jose Menendez
- **Company**: Groq
- **Bio**: Jose is a SWE at Groq with 20 years of experience in the industry as Founder, high-performance data applications, Human/Computer interactions, and serves as a startup advisor in Silicon Valley.

#### Session
- **Title**: Low latency on LLMs allow for some fun agentic workflows!
  - Topic 1
  - Topic 2
  - Topic 3

---

### Name: Sam Stowers
- **Company**: Weights & Biases (W&B)
- **Bio**: Sam Stowers is an AI Engineer working on W&B's Weave, a leading LLM observability & evaluation tool, that takes 3 lines of code to instrument a gen AI app. 

#### Session
- **Title**: Make Your GenAI App Production-Ready with Tracing & Evaluations
- **Description**: LLM demos are easy - making them reliable enough for production is hard. Weave (from Weights & Biases) helps with every stage of development and deployment, so you can iterate rapidly and build confidence in your application.
  - Understand complex queries with tracing (3 lines of code!!)
  - Rapidly identify cost & latency bottlenecks
  - Implement evaluations to make LLM responses consistently good
  - Test which LLMs are best for your needs.

---

### Name: Luke Hollis
- **Bio**: Luke is a 2x founder specializing in 3D graphics, currently working on building generative environments and simulations that feature 3D captures.

#### Session
- **Title**: Generative Interactive Environments: Diffusion World Models and Learning from GDM Genie
- **Description**: Inspired by "Genie: Generative Interactive Environments" (Bruce et al., 2024), this session will give an overview of world models and review three recent papers to discuss implementation in gaming and training generalist agents.
  - World Models
  - Gaming
  - Realtime Interactive Video Generation

---

### Name: Huan Li
- **Company**: Chatie
- **Bio**: Huan Li is an accomplished technologist and innovator at the intersection of artificial intelligence and real-world applications. 

#### Session
- **Title**: Harnessing LLM to Power Chatbot Development with Code-generation and Doc-explanation
- **Description**: Conversational AI has empowered Chatbot applications in recent years, making the Conversational User Interface (CUI) increasingly valuable.
  - Learn what Wechaty SDK can do
  - Design your requirement for automating your WhatsApp personal account
  - Generate source code by prompting your requirement in natural language to LLM
